#Archive/Videos/Gaming
Every Halloween, a group of children in a village would always compete to see who would ask the scariest house to ask for candy, and for years, there was always one house that they would never go. That was, until one Halloween, when a naive child blinded by confidence from his first Halloween costume, little jimmy, was told the tale of that forsaken house. The Legend tells of a man who lived deep in the part of the valley where the sun never pierced through the evergreen needles of the trees, A man who only kept company with the strongest boar in the forest. He deemed the others too weak to guard his post. One fateful day, the forest caught fire, and his beloved boar fled. Although he tried his best, the man was not fast enough to catch it. After the fire calmed, he searched the forest for days. There was no trace of the boar. Years later, on a dark autumn day after the forest had grown back even denser than before, the man heard footprints outside of his home, with his boar no longer there to defend his home, he had taken the duty upon himself, and he stepped out ready for the worst, only to find his long lost boar friend. He yelled with excitement "My beloved boar! You're finally back!" "No." the boar replied. "You have schizophrenia." Little Jimmy didn't get any candy that Halloween.

When I was a kid, it was really easy to do things like go outside, or read books, because I didn't have reliable access to the internet until I was around 10 or 12. I would read typical mid 2000's kid things like Percy Jackson, the 49 clues, etc. But after I found my older sister's excuse of an android phone in the yard, half eaten by our dog, months after we had presumed it went missing, I wouldn't pick up and finish a book until late high school. No, I spent the majority of my time as a kid becoming a master computer toucher, and as my late grandma would say, a filthy red communist liberal brainwashed by Chinese cartoons. Now, entering adulthood, It usually takes a lot for me to be excited about reading something longer than a reddit post. (distantly in the background "He's a redditor too? oh god. . .") More on that later.

As a, now professional, computer toucher, and self identified movie enjoyer, The art of putting pixels on a screen combined with air vibrations that, together, try to pretend they are clever is very interesting to me. Now, films and games do this in very different ways. In films, you have a captive audience. Every pixel and every sound can be tailored for their optimal viewing experience. There is usually many different version of the same movie edited for each aspect ratio of each theatre, and a different audio mix for each standardized sound system. This gives the creator of the film immense power over how they tell whatever story they're trying to tell. 

In games, you are the player, and the creator of the game can't control exactly what you're looking at and what you're hearing, because they have given you the power of choice . . . **agency**. It's very annoying. If you want to tell a story in the way you want it to be told, you need to restrict the player, sometimes very heavily to the point where you just feel like you have the illusion of choice. No matter what you choose, the story continues on the way it would have whether you had chosen to save your friend, or not. For this reason, I have usually preferred games that allow you to create your own story, or be a participant in a story without having to worry about the lore unless you really want to dig into it.

So, it looks like we have two sides to this, we could either give the player agency, or we could have a good story. Out of all of the games I have played, which isn't actually that many i will admit, I have never played, or frankly, been able to conceive of a way to have both of these things in one medium. Then, I played outer wilds.

Mobius digital has done something truly special here. There is no quest menu in this game. There is no invisible walls in this game. There are no areas that you have to unlock. Yet, the game tells a story as seamlessly as the novels I would read as a kid. The best way I can describe this game is like an escape room. If you've ever done one, you would know that you can only really do them once, because once you know the solutions to all the puzzles, you would just be able to go straight to the finish, because you already know where the finish is and how to get there. 

There will be minor spoilers beyond this point. If you haven't played the game yet, you should stop watching right now, and go play it. I don't *care* about my algorithm ratings. So far, this channel is for Minecraft let's plays that get 40 views. Now that I think about it, I guess that makes me a Minecraft youtuber, which means I should clarify: No, I have not touched any kids, and I certainly have not touched any women either.
(internal sadness)

We're here to talk about the DLC, and why i think its better than the original game. I have been told that this is not a very popular opinion among the other fans of this game. There are two main things I like about the DLC that separates it from the original game. The original tells the story mostly through the text that you translate, while the DLC has no text to be seen anywhere. The story is discovered through imagery. This is genius. I like this. You learn the about the characters, their history, their ideas, their conflicts, their . . . solutions . . . And you don't have to read any of it. Its beautiful.

Jokes aside, I am genuinely impressed. There is not a single word of dialogue in this entire DLC, and they tell a nuanced and thought provoking story in such an accessible way. It blows my mind. I genuinely do not know how they did this.

The second thing that they did masterfully well, in my opinion is how they approached fear. And I can now never enjoy a horror game or probably film ever again. I mean I wasn't really that big of a horror fan before either, but that's besides the point. Let's look at some examples. 

Here's a scene in Detroit: become human. (Overview the scene)
It's just there to scare you, that's it. And it's boring.
Here's a scene in (insert movie example)
It's just there to scare you, and its boring.
Here's what they did in outer wilds (outer wilds river scene)

They have everything set up perfectly for another boring jump scare, but instead of scaring you, they show you something amazing, or give you another piece to a puzzle, or something that isn't just "you should feel scared now". And they do this lots of times without making it feel old or trivial. They give you the courage to go into the dark, because whatever awaits on the other side must be worth it. Friendly reminder that they're still pulling this off without restricting they player's agency at all. Well, Besides gravity.

This next segment will contain solutions to some minor puzzles, so the rest of this video is dedicated only to people who have finished the game or don't really care about the small puzzles. (think of a joke to put in here)

Generally in the DLC, the more threatening the dark room looks, the better the reward will be on the other side. If we have a mildly scary abandoned looking house for example, the payoff is just a film reel, cool. Let's see what's on it. Clearly, whoever this alien race is did not want us to see certain parts of their browser history. This one was pretty hard to get. It was locked behind a puzzle of sorts. I have a feeling this one is going to have something interesting on it. Ok, clearly something really big is behind that door if we go to that place and turn off the lights, but if we try that: owlk scream sounds.

You know whatever you find behind that door is going to be very important.

The DLC executes the weight of it's discoveries with a level of impact that the original never really did. Yeah it was really interesting to solve the puzzles and piece everything together but the moments where you figured it out were more like "ooohhh, i see," or "Oh! that's how i do that." Where as when I played the dlc and i figured something out it was like "huuuuuuuu-" The orbital probe cannon puzzle was pretty cool, I will admit, but the DLC had at least 4 of those. 

The scale and complexity of the first game was definitely larger and more thought out, and while it did have a fair amount of weight to it, the DLC felt heavier than my teammates in League of Legends.

I also thought the ending of the game was also a lot more accessible. The message the devs were trying to tell the players, that "Fear is the mind killer," is much more clear, because well, you're spending the whole game learning to confront fear, and you see how scared the alien race was, and the lengths they went to ensure that what they feared would never happen. 

In the first game its just like "you need to accept that your NPC friends and everything you know will end." "Here, jump in to this weird smoke ball." "play a big sound that makes the scene feel dramatic." Idk, it didn't really do it for me. Although its completely possible that I've just watched too many Christopher Nolan movies. In my mind, I've already accepted everyone will die when I took out the warp core and stopped the time loop, and that was like 20 minutes ago at this point. I had to do some crazy stuff to get to the end, I don't have enough RAM in my brain to remember the philosophical significance of what's going on. In the DLC, they handle handle the ending pretty well. I liked it a lot better than the traditional ending. Also the part that they added to the base game ending I thought was much better than any of the previous ones.

Sometimes less is more. This gives the ending the weight that was missing before. You don't need big noises or big visuals or anything like that. Just having the player perform an action that symbolically reminds them what they chose is enough. 

I couldn't really think of a good way to wrap up the video. I was too lazy to write a conclusion. That's all of my thoughts on the game for now. Let me know if you wanna see more of this kind of content, and I still have no outro. I need to get me some food. I saw a house on the way up here that had an animal pen but there wasn't any animals in it. All I heard was some deranged mumbling about boars. They seemed like a nice person though, I figure it couldn't hurt to ask. 